good evening from the Thomas & Mack
Center at the University of Nevada Las
Vegas I'm Chris Wallace of Fox News and
I welcome you to the third and final of
the 2016 presidential debates between
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and
Donald J Trump this debate is sponsored
by the Commission on Presidential
Debates the Commission has designed the
format six roughly 15-minute segments
with two-minute answers to the first
question than open discussion for the
rest of each segment both campaigns have
agreed to those rules for the record I
decided the topics and the questions in
each topic none of those questions has
been shared with the Commission or the
two candidates the audience here in the
hall has promised to remain silent no
cheers boos or other interruptions so we
and you can focus on what the candidates
have to say no noise except right now as
we welcome the Democratic nominee for
president Secretary Clinton and the
Republican nominee for president mr.
Trump
Secretary Clinton mr. Trump welcome
let's get right to it the first topic is
the Supreme Court we you both talked
briefly about the court in the last
debate but I want to drill down on this
because the next president will almost
certainly have at least one appointment
and likely or possibly two or three
appointments which means that you will
in effect determine the balance of the
court for what could be the next quarter
century first of all where do you want
to see the court take the country and
secondly what's your view on how the
Constitution should be interpreted is do
the founders words mean what they say or
is it a living document to be a flaw
applied flexibly according to changing
circumstances in this segment Secretary
Clinton you go first you have two
minutes thank you very much Chris and
thanks to UNLV for hosting us you know I
think when we talk about the Supreme
Court it really raises the central issue
in this election namely what kind of
country are we going to be what kind of
opportunities will we provide for our
citizens what kind of rights will
Americans have and I feel strongly that
the Supreme Court needs to stand on the
side of the American people not on the
side of the powerful corporations and
the wealthy for me that means that we
need a Supreme Court that will stand up
on behalf of women's rights on behalf of
the rights of the LGBT community that
will stand up and say no to Citizens
United a decision that has undermined
the election system in our country
because of the way it permits dark
unaccountable money to come into our
electoral system I have major
disagreements with my opponent about
these issues and others that will be
before the Supreme Court but I feel that
at this point in our country's history
it is important that we not reverse
marriage equality that we not reverse
roe v wade that we stand up against
it''s united we stand up for the rights
of people in the workplace that we stand
up and basically say the Supreme Court
should represent all of us that's how I
see the court and the kind of people
that I would be looking to nominate to
the court would be in the great
tradition of standing up to the powerful
standing up on behalf of our rights as
Americans and I look forward to having
that opportunity I would hope that the
Senate would do its job and confirm the
nominee that President Obama has sent to
them that's the way the Constitution
fundamentally should operate the
president nominates and then the Senate
advises and consents or not but they go
forward with the process Secretary
Clinton thank you mr. Trump same
question where do you want to see the
court take the country and how do you
believe the Constitution should be
interpreted well first of all it's so
great to be with you and thank you
everybody the Supreme Court it's what
it's all about our country is so so it's
just so imperative that we have the
right justices something happened
recently where Justice Ginsburg made
some very very inappropriate statements
toward me and toward a tremendous number
of people many many millions of people
that I represent and she was forced to
apologize and apologize she did but
these were statements that should never
ever have been made we need a Supreme
Court that in my opinion is going to
uphold the Second Amendment and all
amendments but the Second Amendment
which is under absolute siege I believe
if my opponent should win this race
which I truly don't think will happen we
will have a second amendment which will
be a very very small replica of what it
is right now but I feel that it's
absolutely important that we upholds
because of the fact that it is under
such trauma I feel that the justices
that I am going to appoint and I've
named 20 of them the justices that I'm
going to a point will be pro-life they
will have a conservative bent
they will be protecting the Second
Amendment they are great scholars in all
cases and they're people of tremendous
respect they will interpret the
Constitution the way the founders wanted
it interpreted and I believe that's very
very important I don't think we should
have justices appointed that decide what
they want to hear it's all about the
constitution of and so important the
Constitution the way it was meant to be
and those are the people that I will
appoint mr. Trump thank you we now have
about ten minutes for an open discussion
I want to focus on two issues that in
fact by the justices that you named
could end up changing the existing law
of the land first is one that you
mentioned mr. Trump and that is gun
Secretary Clinton you said last year let
me quote the Supreme Court is wrong on
the Second Amendment and now in fact in
the 2008 teller case the court ruled
that there is a constitutional right to
bear arms but a a right that is
reasonably limited those were the words
of the of the judge Antonin Scalia who
wrote the decision what's wrong with
that well first of all I support the
Second Amendment I lived in Arkansas for
18 wonderful years I represented upstate
New York I understand and respect the
tradition of gun ownership it goes back
to the founding of our country but I
also believe that there can be and must
be reasonable regulation because I
support the Second Amendment doesn't
mean that I want people who shouldn't
have guns to be able to threaten you
kill you or members of your family and
so when I think about what we need to do
we have 33,000 people a year who die
from guns I think we need comprehensive
background checks we need to close the
online loophole close the gun show
loophole there's other matters that I
think are sensible that are the kind of
reforms that would make a difference
that are not in any way conflicting with
the Second Amendment you mentioned the
Heller decision and what
was saying that you reference Chris was
that I disagreed with the way the court
applied the Second Amendment in that
case because what the District of
Columbia was trying to do was to protect
toddlers from guns and so they wanted
people with guns to safely store them
and the court didn't accept that
reasonable regulation but they've
accepted many others so I see no
conflict between saving people's lives
and defending the Second Amendment let
me bring mr. Trump in here the
bipartisan open debate coalition got
millions of votes on questions to ask
here and this was in fact one of the top
questions that they got how will you
ensure the Second Amendment is protected
you've just heard secretary Clinton's
answer does she persuade you that while
you may difference agree on regulation
that in fact she supports a Second
Amendment right to bear arms well the DC
versus Heller decision was very strongly
and she was extremely angry about it I
watched I mean she was very very angry
when upheld and Justice Scalia was so
involved and it was a well crafted
decision but Hillary was extremely upset
extremely angry and people that believe
in the Second Amendment and believe in
it very strongly were very upset with
what she had to say let me let me bring
in Secretary Clinton were you extremely
upset well I was upset because
unfortunately dozens of toddlers injure
themselves even kill people with guns
because unfortunately not everyone who
has loaded guns in their homes take
appropriate precautions but there's no
doubt that I respect the Second
Amendment that I also believe there's an
individual right to bear arms that is
not in conflict with sensible
common-sense regulation and you know
look I understand that Donald's been
strongly supported by the NRA the gun
lobby's on his side they're running
millions of dollars of ads against me
and I regret that because what I would
like to see is for people to come
together and say of course we're going
to protect and defend the Second
Amendment but we're going to do it in a
way
that tries to save some of these 33,000
lives that we lose everybody let me
bring mr. Trump back into that because
in fact you oppose any limits on assault
weapons any limits on high-capacity
magazines you support a National
right-to-carry law why sir
well let me just tell you before we go
any further in Chicago which has the
toughest gun laws in the United States
probably you could say by far they have
more gun violence than any other city so
we have the toughest laws and you have
tremendous gun violence I am a very
strong supporter of the Second Amendment
and I am I don't know if Hillary was
saying it in a sarcastic manner but I'm
very proud to have the endorsement of
the NRA and it's the earliest
endorsement they've ever given to
anybody who ran for president so I'm
very honored by all of that we are going
to appoint justices this is the best way
to help the Second Amendment we are
going to appoint justices that will feel
very strongly about the Second Amendment
that will not do damage to the Second
Amendment well let's pick up on another
issue which divides you and the Justice
is that whoever ends up winning this
election appoints could have a dramatic
effect that there and that's the issue
of abortion right mr. Trump you're
pro-life but I want to ask you
specifically do you want the court
including the justices that you will
name to overturn roe v wade which
includes in fact states a woman's right
to abortion well if that would happen
because I am pro-life and I will be
appointing pro-life judges I would think
that that will go back to the individual
states but I'm asking you specifically
would you like they overturned it'll go
back to the states what I'm asking you
sir is do you want to see the court
overturn you've just said you want to
see the court protect the Second
Amendment
do you want to see the court overturn
well if we put another two or perhaps
three justices on that's really what's
going to be had that's will happen and
that'll happen automatically in my
opinion because I am putting pro-life
and justices on the court I will say
this it will go back to the states and
the states will then make a
determination secretary Chloe sit roll V
Wade
guarantees a constitutional right to a
woman to make the most intimate most
difficult in many cases decisions about
her health care that one can imagine and
in this case it's not only about roe v
wade it is about what's happening right
now in america so many states are
putting very stringent regulations on
women that block them from exercising
that choice to the extent that they are
defunding Planned Parenthood which of
course provides all kinds of cancer
screenings and other benefits for women
in our country Donald has said he's in
favor of defunding Planned Parenthood he
even supported shutting the government
down to defund Planned Parenthood I will
defend Planned Parenthood I will defend
roe v wade and I will defend women's
rights to make their own healthcare
decisions we have come too far to have
that turn back now and in indeed he said
women should be punished that there
should be some form of punishment for
women who obtain abortions and I could
just not be more opposed to that kind of
thinking I'm gonna give you a chance to
respond but I want to ask you Secretary
Clinton I want to explore how far you
believe the right to abortion goes you
have been quoted as saying that the
fetus has no constitutional rights you
also voted against a ban on late term
partial birth abortions
why because roe v wade very clearly sets
out that there can be regulations on
abortion so long as the life and the
health of the mother are taken into
account and when I voted as a senator I
did not think that that was the case the
kinds of cases that fall at the end of
pregnancy are often the most
heartbreaking painful decisions for
families to make I have met with women
who had toward the end of their
pregnancy get the worst news one could
get that their health is in jeopardy if
they continue to carry to term or that
something terrible has happened or just
Bendis
covered about the pregnancy I do not
think the United States government
should be stepping in and making those
most personal of decisions so you can
regulate if you are doing so with the
life and the health of the mother taken
into account mr. Trump your reaction and
particularly on this issue of late term
partial birth well it's terrible if you
go with what Hillary is saying in the
ninth month you can take the baby and
rip the baby out of the womb of the
mother just prior to the birth of the
baby now you can say that that's okay
and Hillary can say that that's okay but
it's not okay with me
because based on what she's saying and
based on where she's going and where
she's been you can take the baby and rip
the baby out of the womb in the ninth
month on the final day and that's not
acceptable well that is not what happens
in these cases and using that kind of
scare rhetoric is just terribly
unfortunate you should meet with some of
the women that I've met with women I've
known over the course of my life this is
one of the worst possible choices that
any woman and her family has to make and
I do not believe the government should
be making it you know I've had the great
honor of traveling across the world on
behalf of our country I've been to
countries where governments either
forced women to have abortions like they
used to do in China or forced women to
bear children like they used to do in
Romania and I can tell you the
government has no business in the
decisions that women make with their
families in accordance with their faith
with medical advice and I will stand up
for that right all right but just
briefly I want to move on nobody has
business doing what I just said doing
that as late as one or two or three or
four days prior to birth nobody has that
all right let's move on to the subject
of immigration and there is almost no
issue that separates the two of you more
than the issue of immigration actually
there are a lot of issues that separate
the two of you mr. Trump you want to
build a wall secretary clinton who have
offered no specific plan for how
want to secure our southern border mr.
Trump you are calling for major
deportations Secretary Clinton you say
that within your first hundred days as
president you're going to offer a
package that includes a pathway to
citizenship the question really is why
are you right and your opponent wrong
mr. Trump you go first in that segment
you have two minutes well first of all
she wants to give amnesty which is a
disaster and very unfair to all of the
people the waiting online for many many
years
we need strong borders in the audience
tonight we have four mothers of I mean
these are unbelievable people that I've
gotten to know over a period of years
whose children have been killed brutally
killed by people that came into the
country illegally you have thousands of
mothers and fathers and relatives all
over the country they're coming in
illegally drugs are pouring in through
the border we have no country if we have
no border Hillary wants to give amnesty
she wants to have open borders the
border secure as you know the Border
Patrol agent 16,500 plus ice last week
endorsed me first time they've ever
endorsed a candidate it means their job
is tougher but they know what's going on
if they know it better than anybody who
they want strong borders they feel we
have to have strong borders I was up in
New Hampshire the other day the biggest
complaint they have it's with all of the
problems going on in the world many of
the problems caused by Hillary Clinton
and by Barack Obama all of the problems
a single biggest problem is heroin that
pours across our southern borders just
pouring and destroying their youth it's
poisoning the blood of their youth and
plenty of other people we have to have
strong borders we have to keep the drugs
out of our country we are right now
we're getting the drugs they're getting
the cash we need strong borders we need
absolute we cannot give amnesty now I
want to build the wall we need the wall
the border patrol ice they all want the
wall we stop the drugs we shore up the
border one of my first acts will be to
get all of the drug lords all of the bad
ones we have some bad bad people in this
country that have to go out we're gonna
get them out we're going to secure the
border and once the border is secured at
a later date we'll make a determination
as to the rest but we have some
and Umbra is here and we're gonna get
him out mr. Trump thank you
same question to you Secretary Clinton
basically why are you right mr. Trump is
wrong well as he was talking I was
thinking about a young girl I met here
in Las Vegas Carla who was very worried
that her parents might be deported
because she was born in this country but
they were not they work hard they do
everything they can to give her a good
life and you're right I don't want to
rip families apart I don't want to be
sending parents away from children I
don't want to see the deportation force
that Donald has talked about in action
in our country we have 11 million
undocumented people they have four
million American citizen children 15
million people he said as recently as a
few weeks ago in Phoenix that every
undocumented person would be subject to
deportation now here's what that means
it means you would have to have a
massive law enforcement presence where
law enforcement officers would be going
school to school home to home business
to business rounding up people who are
undocumented and we would then have to
put them on trains on buses to get them
out of our country I think that is a an
idea that is not in keeping with who we
are as a nation I think it's an idea
that would rip our country apart I have
been for border security for years I
voted for border security in the United
States Senate and my comprehensive
immigration reform plan of course
includes border security but I want to
put our resources where I think they're
most needed getting rid of any violent
person anybody who should be deported we
should deport them when it comes to the
wall that Donald talks about building he
went to Mexico he had a meeting with the
Mexican president didn't even raise it
he choked and then got into a Twitter
war because the Mexican president said
we're not paying for that wall so I
think we are both a nation of immigrants
and we are a nation of laws and that we
can act accordingly and that's why I'm
introducing comprehensive immigration
reform within the
first hundred days with a path to
citizenship Thank You Secretary Clinton
I want to follow I think it's I should
respond to them first of all had a very
good meeting with the President of
Mexico very nice man we will be doing
very much better with Mexico on trade
deals believe me the NAFTA deal signed
by her husband's one of the worst deals
ever made of any kind signed by anybody
it's a disaster
Hillary Clinton wanted the wall Hillary
Clinton fought for the wall in 2006 or
there abouts now she never gets anything
done so naturally the wall wasn't built
but Hillary Clinton wanted the wall and
by the way I'd like to I'd like to hear
from Secretary Clinton I voted for
border security and there are there are
some limited places where that was
appropriate there also is necessarily
going to be new technology and how best
to deploy that but it is clear when you
look at what Donald has been proposing
he started his campaign bashing
immigrants calling Mexican immigrants
rapists and criminals and drug dealers
that he has a very different view about
what we should do to deal with
immigrants now what I am also arguing is
that bringing undocumented immigrants
out from the shadows putting them into
the formal economy will be good because
that employers can't exploit them and
undercut Americans wages and Donald
knows a lot about this he used
undocumented labor to build the Trump
Tower
he underpaid undocumented workers and
when they complained he basically said
what a lot of employers do you complain
I'll get you deported I want to get
everybody out of the shadows get the
economy working and not let employers
like Donald exploit undocumented workers
which hurts them but also hurts American
workers mr. Trump the president Obama
has moved millions of people out nobody
knows about it nobody talks about it but
under Obama millions of people have been
moved out of this country they've been
deported she doesn't want to say that
but that's what's happened and that's
what's happened big-league as far as
moving these people out and moving we
either
have a country or we don't we're a
country of laws we either have a border
or we don't now
you can come back in and you can become
a citizen but it's very unfair we have
millions of people that did it the right
way they're online they're waiting we're
going to speed up the process big league
because it's very inefficient but
they're online and they're waiting to
become citizens very unfair that
somebody runs across the border becomes
a citizen under her plan you have open
borders you would have a disaster on
trade and you will have a disaster with
your open borders what they don't say is
that President Obama has deported
millions and millions of people just the
way rhetorical and I will not have open
border that is a will have secure
borders but we will also have reform and
this used to be a bipartisan issue
Ronald Reagan's immigration reform and
George W Bush supported it as well
Secretary Clinton I want to clear up
your position on this issue because in a
speech you gave to a Brazilian bank for
which you were paid two hundred and
twenty-five thousand dollars we've
learned from the WikiLeaks that you said
this and I want to quote my dream is a
hemispheric common market with open
trade and open borders so thank you
that's Jenna that's the question please
quiet everybody is that your dream open
borders well if you went on to read the
rest of the sentence I was talking about
energy you know we trade more energy
with our neighbors than we trade with
the rest of the world combined
and I do want us to have a an electric
grid an energy system that crosses
borders I think that would be a great
benefit to us but you are very clearly
quoting from WikiLeaks and what's really
important about WikiLeaks is that the
Russian government has engaged in
espionage against Americans they have
hacked American websites American
accounts and private people of
institutions then they have given that
information to WikiLeaks for the purpose
of putting it on the Internet this has
come from the highest level
of the Russian government clearly from
Putin himself in an effort as 17 of our
intelligence agencies have confirmed to
influence our election so I actually
think the most important question of
this evening Kris is finally will Donald
Trump admit and condemn that the
Russians are doing this and make it
clear that he will not have the help of
Putin in this election that he rejects
Russian espionage against Americans
which he actually encouraged in the past
those are the questions we need answered
we've never had anything like this
happen in any of our elections before
that was a great pivot off the fact that
she wants open borders okay hold on
folks because we could this is gonna end
up getting out of control let's try to
keep it quiet so for the candidates and
for the American people so just to
finish her on the borders yes she wants
open borders people are gonna pour into
our country people are gonna come in
from Syria she wants five hundred and
fifty percent more people than Barack
Obama and he has thousands and thousands
of people they have no idea where they
come from and you see we are going to
stop radical Islamic terrorism in this
country she won't even mention the words
and neither will President Obama so I
just want to tell you she wants open
borders now we can talk about Putin I
don't know Putin he said nice things
about me if we got along well that would
be good if Russia and the United States
got along well and went after Isis that
would be good he has no respect for her
he has no respect for our president and
I'll tell you what we're in very serious
trouble because we have a country with
tremendous numbers of nuclear warheads
1,800 by the way where they expanded and
we didn't 1800 nuclear warheads and
she's playing chicken look from
everything I see has no respect for this
person
well that's because he'd rather have a
puppet as president no pop today no
problem it's pretty clear it's pretty
clear you won't admit now you have the
Russians of an
aged in cyberattacks against the United
States of America that you encouraged
espionage against our people that you
are willing to spout the Putin line sign
up for his wish list break up NATO do
whatever he wants to do and that you
continue to get help from him because he
has a very clear favorite in this race
so I think that this is such an
unprecedented situation we've never had
a foreign government trying to interfere
in our election we have 17:17
intelligence agencies civilian and
military who have all concluded that
these espionage attacks these cyber
attacks come from the highest levels of
the Kremlin and they are designed to
influence our election I find that
deeply disturbing
I think it's 17 until it do you doubt 17
agencies well Vladimir Putin then the
military and civilian intelligence
professionals who are sworn to protect
us I find that just because Putin has
outsmarted her at every step of the way
yes and I would like to ask you this
direct question the top national
security officials of this country do
believe that Russia has been behind
these hacks even if you don't know for
sure whether they are do you condemn any
interference by Russia in the American
election by Russia or anybody else you
condemn their interference of course I
condemn of course I can I don't know
Putin I have no idea I never met and
this is not my best friend but if the
United States got along with Russia
wouldn't be so bad let me tell you Putin
has outsmarted her and Obama at every
single step of the way whether it's
Syria
you name it missiles take a look at the
startup that they signed the Russians
have said according to many many reports
I can't believe they allowed us to do
this they create warheads and we can't
the Russians can't believe it
she has been outsmarted by Putin and all
you have to do is look at the Middle
East they've taken over
we've spent six trillion dollars they've
taken over the Middle East
she has been outsmarted and outplayed
worse than anybody I've ever seen in any
government whatsoever we're a long way
away from their immigration but I'm
gonna let you finish this about 45
seconds and she always will be I find it
ironic that he's raising nuclear weapons
this is a person who has been very
cavalier even casual about the use of
nuclear weapons he's advocated more
countries getting them Japan Korea even
Saudi Arabia he said well if we have
them why don't we use them which i think
is terrifying but here's the deal the
bottom line on nuclear weapons is that
when the president gives the order it
must be followed there's about four
minutes between the order being given
and the people responsible for launching
nuclear weapons to do so and that's why
10 people who have had that awesome
responsibility have come out in an
unprecedented way said they would not
trust Donald Trump with the nuclear
codes or to have his finger on the
nuclear button I have 200 generals and
admirals 21 endorsing me 21
Congressional Medal of Honor recipients
as far as Japan and other countries we
are being ripped off by everybody in
there we're defending other countries we
are spending a fortune doing it they
have the bargain of the century all I
said is we have to renegotiate these
agreements because our country cannot
afford to defend Saudi Arabia Japan
Germany South Korea and many other
places we cannot continue to afford she
took that as some nuclear weapons look
she's been proven to be a liar on so
many different ways this is just another
lie well I'm just quoting you
when there's no quote you're not going
to find a quote from nuclear nuclear
competition in Asia you said you know go
ahead enjoy yourselves folks that kind
and defend yourself and yourself the
United States has kept the peace through
our alliances Donald wants to tear up
our alliances I think it makes the world
safer and frankly it makes the United
States safer I would work with our
allies in Asia in Europe in the Middle
East and elsewhere that's the only way
we're going to know we're gonna we are
going to move on to the next topic which
is the economy and I hope we have that
as well as we did immigration you also
have very different ideas about how to
get the economy growing faster Secretary
Clinton in your plan government plays a
big role you see more government
spending more entitlements more tax
credits more tax penalties mr. Trump you
want to get government out with lower
taxes and less regulation we're going to
drill down into this a little bit more
but in this overview please explain to
me why you believe that your plan will
create more jobs and growth for this
country and your opponents plan will not
in this round you go for a secretary
claim well I think when the middle class
thrives America thrives and so my plan
is based on growing the economy giving
middle-class families many more
opportunities I want us to have the
biggest jobs program since World War two
jobs and infrastructure and advanced
manufacturing I think we can compete
with high wage countries and I believe
we should new jobs and clean energy not
only to fight climate change which is a
serious problem but to create new
opportunities and new businesses I want
us to do more to help small business
that's where two-thirds of the new jobs
are going to come from I want us to
raise the national minimum wage because
people who live in poverty should not
who work full time should not still be
in poverty and I sure do want to make
sure women get equal pay for the work we
do I feel strongly that we have to have
an education system that starts with
preschool and goes through college
that's
I want more technical education in high
schools and in community colleges real
apprenticeships to prepare young people
for the jobs of the future
I want to make college debt-free and for
families making less than one hundred
and twenty five thousand dollars you
will not get a tuition bill from a
public college or university if the plan
that I worked on with Bernie Sanders is
enacted and we're going to work hard to
make sure that it is because we are
going to go where the money is most of
the gains in the last years since the
Great Recession have gone to the very
top so we are going to have the wealthy
pay their fair share we're going to have
corporations make a contribution greater
than they are now to our country that is
a plan that has been analyzed by
independent experts which said that it
could produce 10 million new jobs by
contrast Donald's plan has been analyzed
to conclude it might lose three and a
half million jobs why because his whole
plan is to cut taxes to give the biggest
tax breaks ever to the wealthy and to
corporations adding twenty trillion
dollars to our debt and causing the kind
of dislocation that we have seen before
because it truly will be trickle-down
economics on steroids so the plan I have
I think will actually produce greater
opportunities the plan he has will cost
us jobs and possibly lead to another
Great Recession secretary thank you mr.
Trump why will your plan create more
jobs and growth and Secretary Clinton
well first of all before I said on my
plan her plan is going to raise taxes
and even double you taxes her tax plan
is a disaster and she can say all she
wants about college tuition and I'm a
big proponent we're going to do a lot of
things for college tuition but the rest
of the public is going to be paying for
it we will have a massive massive tax
increase under Hillary Clinton's plan
but I'd like to start off where we left
because when I said Japan and Germany
and I'm not to single them out but South
Korea these are very rich powerful
countries Saudi Arabia nothing but money
we protect Saudi Arabia why aren't they
paying she immediately when she heard
this I questioned it and I questioned
data why aren't the NATO questions why
aren't they
paying because they weren't paying since
I did this this was a year ago all of a
sudden they're paying and I've been
given a lot of a lot of credit for it
all of a sudden they're starting to pay
up they have to pay up we're protecting
people they have to pay up and I'm a big
fan of NATO but they have to pay up she
comes out and said we love our allies we
think our allies are great well it's
awfully hard to get them to pay up when
you have somebody saying we think how
great they are we have to tell Japan in
a very nice way we have to tell Germany
all of these countries South Korea we
have to say you have to help us out we
have during his regime during President
Obama's regime we've doubled our
national debt we're up to 20 trillion
dollars so my plan we're gonna
renegotiate traders we're gonna have a
lot of free trade we're gonna have free
trade more free trade that we have right
now but we have horrible deals our jobs
are being taken out by the deal that her
husband signed NAFTA one of the worst
deals ever heard their jobs are being
sucked out of our economy you look at
all of the places that I just left you
go to Pennsylvania you go to Ohio you go
to Florida you go to any of them you go
upstate New York our jobs have fled to
Mexico and other places we're bringing
our jobs back I am gonna renegotiate
NAFTA and if I can't make a great deal
then we're going to terminate NAFTA and
we're going to create new deals we're
gonna have trade but we're going to turn
we're going to terminate it we're gonna
make a great trade deal and if we can't
we're going to do it we're going to go a
separate way because it has been a
disaster well you're going to cut taxes
massively we're going to cut business
taxes massively they're going to start
hiring people we're gonna bring the two
and a half trillion dollars off your
back into the country we are going to
start the engine rolling again because
right now our country is dying at 1% GDP
well let me translate that if I can
Chris because you can in fact is he's
going to advocate for the largest tax
cuts we've ever seen three times more
than the tax cuts under the Bush
administration I have said repeatedly
throughout this campaign I will not
raise taxes on anyone making $250,000 or
less I also will not add a penny to the
debt I have costed out what I'm going to
do he will through he
massive tax cuts add 20 trillion dollars
to the debt well he mentioned the debt
we know how to get control of the debt
when my husband was president we went
from a 300 billion dollar deficit to a
200 billion dollar surplus and we were
actually on the path to eliminating the
national debt when President Obama came
into office he inherited the worst
economic disaster since the Great
Depression he has cut the deficit by
two-thirds so yes one of the ways you go
after the debt one of the ways you
create jobs is by investing in people so
I do have investments investments in new
jobs investments in education skill
training and the opportunities for
people to get ahead and stay ahead
that's the kind of a product attorney
that will work cutting taxes on the
wealthy we've tried that something has
not worked the way that it has been
chuckling I want to I want to pursue
your plan because in many ways it is
similar to the Obama stimulus plan in
2009 which has led to the slowest GDP
growth since 1949 correct thank you sir
you told me in July when we spoke that
the problem is that President Obama
didn't get to do enough in what he was
trying to do with the stimulus so is
your plan basically more even more of
the Obama stimulus well it's a
combination Chris and let me say that
when you inherit the level of economic
catastrophe that President Obama
inherited it was a real touch-and-go
situation I was in the Senate before I
became Secretary of State I've never
seen people as physically distraught as
the bush administration team was because
of what was happening to the economy I
personally believe that the steps that
President Obama took saved the economy
he doesn't get the credit he deserves
for taking some very hard positions but
it was a terrible recession so now we've
dug ourselves out of it we're standing
but we're not yet running so what I am
proposing is that we invest from the
middle out and the
found up not the top down that is not
going to work that's why what I have put
forward doesn't add a penny to the debt
but it is the kind of approach that will
enable more people to take those new
jobs higher paying jobs we're beginning
to see some increase in incomes and we
certainly have had a long string of
increasing jobs we've got to do more to
get the whole economy moving and that's
what I believe I will be able to do mr.
Trump even conservative economists who
have looked at your plans say that the
numbers don't add up that your idea and
you've talked about 25 million jobs
created four percent over ten years
growth is unrealistic and they say you
talk a lot about growing the energy
industry they say with oil prices as
well as they are right now that's
unrealistic as well you're responsible
so I just left some high representatives
of India they're growing at 8% China is
growing at 7% and that for them is a
catastrophic alena low number we are
growing our last report came out and
it's right around the 1% level and I
think it's going down last week as you
know at the end of last week they came
out with an anemic jobs report terrible
jobs report in fact I said is that the
last jobs report before the election
because of it is I should win easily
it was so bad the report was so bad look
our country is stagnant we've lost our
jobs we've lost our businesses we're not
making things anymore
relatively speaking our product is
pouring in from China pouring in from
Vietnam pouring in from all over the
world I've visited so many communities
this has been such an incredible
education for me Chris I've gotten to
know so many I've developed so many
friends over the last year and they cry
when they see what's happened I pass
factories that were thriving 20-25 years
ago and because of the bill that her
husband signed and she blessed a hundred
percent it is just horrible what's
happened to these people in these
communities now she can say that her
husband did well but boy did they suffer
as NAFTA kicked in because it didn't
really kick in very much but it
after they left boy did they suffer that
was one of the worst things that's ever
been signed by our country now she wants
to sign trans-pacific partnership and
she wants it she lied when she said she
didn't call it the gold standard in one
of the debates she totally lied she did
call it the gold standard and they
actually fact checked and they said I
was right I want to give you a chance to
briefly speak to that that I want to
give it to one second as Obamacare but
go ahead well briefly first let me let
me say number one when I saw the final
agreement for TPP I said I was against
it it didn't meet my tests I've had the
same test does it create jobs raise
incomes and further our national
security I'm against it now I'll be
against it after the election I'll be
against it when I'm president there's
only one of us on this stage who's
actually shipped jobs to Mexico because
that's Donald he's shipped jobs to 12
countries including Mexico but he
mentioned China and you know one of the
biggest problems we have with China is
the illegal dumping of steel and
aluminum into our markets I have fought
against that as a senator I've stood up
against it as Secretary of State Donald
has bought Chinese steel and aluminum in
fact the Trump Hotel right here in Las
Vegas was made with Chinese steel so he
goes around with crocodile tears about
how terrible it is but he has given jobs
to Chinese steel workers not American
steel drum that's the kind that is just
not going to work we're going to pull
the country together we're going to have
trade agreements that we enforce that's
why I'm going to have a trade prosecutor
for the first time in history and we're
going to enforce those agreements and
we're going to look for businesses that
was by buying American products is a
simple question she's been doing this
for 30 years why the hell didn't you do
it over the last 15 20 years you were
very much involved excuse me my turn you
were very much involved in every aspect
of this country very much and you do
have experience I say the one thing you
have over me is experience but it's bad
experience because what you've done has
turned out badly for 30 years you've
been a position to help and if you say
that I used to yell or I used something
else I make it impossible for me to do
that I wouldn't mind
the problem is you talk but you don't
get anything done Hillary you don't just
like when you ran the State Department
six billion dollars was missing how do
you miss six billion dollars you ran the
State Department six billion dollars was
either stolen they don't know it's gone
six billion dollars if you become
president this country is going to be in
some mess believe me well first of all
what he just said about the State
Department is not only untrue it's been
debunked numerous times but I think it's
really an important issue he raised the
30 years of experience so let me just
talk briefly about that you know back in
the 1970s I work for the Children's
Defense Fund and I was taking on
discrimination against African American
kids and schools he was getting sued by
the Justice Department for racial
discrimination in his apartment
buildings in the 1980s I was working to
reform the schools in Arkansas he was
borrowing 14 million dollars from his
father to start his businesses in the
1990s I went to Beijing and I said
women's rights or human rights
he insulted a former Miss Universe
Alisha Machado called her a an eating
machine and on the day when I was in the
Situation Room monitoring the raid that
brought Osama bin Laden to justice he
was hosting the Celebrity Apprentice so
I'm happy to compare my 30 years of
experience what I've done for this
country trying to help in every way I
could especially kids and families get
ahead and stay ahead with your 30 years
and I'll let the American people make
that decision well I think I did a much
better job
I built a massive company a great
company some of the greatest assets and
the only anywhere in the world worth
many many billions of dollars I started
with a 1 million dollar loan I agree
with that it's a 1 million dollar loan
but I built a phenomenal company and if
we could run our country the way I've
run my company we would have a country
that you would be so proud of you would
even be proud of it and frankly when you
look at her real record take a look at
Syria take a look at the migration take
a look at Libya take a look at Iraq
she gave us Isis because her and Obama
created this huge vacuum and a small
group came out of that huge vacuum
because when they that we should have
never been in Iraq but once we were
there we should have never got out the
way they wanted to get out
she gave us Isis assures you are sitting
there and what happened is now Isis is
in 32 countries and now I listen how
she's gonna get rid of Isis she's gonna
get rid of nobody all right we are gonna
get to foreign hotspots in a few moments
but the next segment is fitness to be
President of the United States mr. Trump
at the last debate you said your talk
about grabbing women was just that talk
and that you've never actually done it
and since then as we all know nine women
have come forward and said that you
either grope them or kiss them without
their consent why would so many
different women from so many different
circumstances over so many different
years why would they all in this last
couple of weeks make up you've denied us
why would they all make up these stories
and since this is a question for both of
you Secretary Clinton mr. Trump says
what your husband did and that you
defended was even worse mr. Trump you go
first well first of all those stories
have been largely debunked those people
I don't know those people I have a
feeling how they came I believe it was
her campaign that did it just like if
you look at what came out today or on
the clips where I was wondering what
happened with my rally in Chicago and
other rallies where we had such violence
she's the one in Obama that caused the
violence they hired people they paid
them $1,500 and they're on tape saying
be violent cause fights do bad things I
would say the only way because those
stories are all totally false I have to
say that and I didn't even apologize to
my wife who's sitting right here because
I didn't do anything I didn't know any
of these women I didn't see these women
these women the woman on the plane the
woman I think they want either Fame or
her campaign did it and I think it's her
campaign because what I saw what they
did
which is a criminal act by the way where
they're telling people to go out and
start fistfights and start violence and
I'll tell you what in particular in
Chicago people were hurt and people
could have been killed in that riot and
that was now all on tape
started by her I believe Chris that she
got these people to step forward if it
wasn't they get their 10 minutes of fame
but they were all totally it was all
fiction it was lies and it was fiction
well I'm Corey Clement at the last
debate we heard Donald talking about
what he did to women and after that a
number of women have come forward saying
that's exactly what he did to them now
what was his response well he held a
number of big rallies where he said that
he could not possibly have done those
things to those women because they were
not attractive enough for I did not say
that in fact he went on to say or to
impertinent serve her two minutes but he
went on to say look at her
I don't think so about another woman he
said that wouldn't be my first choice
he attacked the woman reporter writing
the story called her disgusting as he
has called a number of women during this
campaign
Donald thinks belittling women makes him
bigger he goes after their dignity their
self-worth and I don't think there is a
woman anywhere who doesn't know what
that feels like so we now know what
Donald thinks and what he says and how
he acts toward women that's who Donald
is I think it's really up to all of us
to demonstrate who we are and who our
country is and to stand up and be very
clear about what we expect from our next
president how we want to bring our
country together where we don't want to
have the kind of pitting of people one
against the other
we're in
we celebrate our diversity we lift
people up and we make our country even
greater America is great because America
is good and it really is up to all of us
to make that true
now and in the future and particularly
for our children and our grandchildren
mr. Trump nobody has more respect for
women than I do nobody nobody has more
raise everybody and frankly those sewers
have been largely debunked and I really
want to just talk about something
slightly different she mentions this
which is all fiction or fictionalized
probably or possibly started by her and
her very sleazy campaign but I will tell
you what is it fictionalized or her
emails where she destroyed 33,000 emails
criminally criminally after getting a
subpoena from the United States Congress
what happened to the FBI I don't know we
have a great general four-star general
today you read it in all the papers
gonna potentially serve five years in
jail for lying to the FBI one lie she's
lied hundreds of times to the people to
Congress and to the to the FBI he's
going to probably go to jail this is a
four-star general and she gets away with
it
and she can run for the presidency of
the United States that's really what you
should be talking about not fiction
where somebody wants Fame or where they
come out of her crooked campaign
secretary Clint
well every time Donald has pushed on
something which is obviously
uncomfortable like what these women are
saying he immediately goes to denying
responsibility and it's not just about
women he never apologizes or says he's
sorry for anything so we know what he
has said and what he's done to women but
he also went after a disabled reporter
mocked and mimicked
Tim on national television he went after
mr. and mrs. Khan the parents of a young
man who died serving our country a gold
star family because of their religion
he went after John McCain a prisoner of
war said he prefers people who aren't
captured he went after a federal judge
born in Indiana but who Donald said
couldn't be trusted to try the fraud and
racketeering case against Trump
University because his parents were
Mexican so it's not one thing this is a
pattern a pattern of divisive Nasseri
dark and in many ways dangerous vision
of our country where he incites violence
where he applauds people who are pushing
and pulling and punching at his rallies
that is not who America is and I hope
that as we move in the last weeks of
this campaign more and more people will
understand what's at stake in this
election it really does come down to
what kind of country we are going to
have so sad when she talks about
violence at my rallies and she caused
the violence that's on tape the other
things are false but honestly I'd love
to talk about getting rid of Isis and
I'd love to talk about other things okay
but those other charges as she knows
there are fullness in this bucket about
fitness to be President there's been a
lot of developments over the last ten
days since the last debate I'd like to
ask you about about them these are
questions that the American people have
Secretary Clinton during year 2009
Senate confirmation hearing you promised
to avoid even the appearance of a
conflict of interest with your dealing
with the Clinton Foundation while you
were Secretary of State but email show
the donors got special access to you
those seeking grants for Haiti relief
were considered separately from non
donors and some of those donors caught
contract government contracts taxpayer
money can you really say that you kept
your pledge to that Senate committee and
why isn't what happened and what went on
between you and the Clinton Foundation
why isn't
mr. Trump calls hate apply well
everything I did as Secretary of State
was in furtherance of our country's
interests and our values the State
Department has said that I think that's
been proven but I am happy in fact I am
thrilled to talk about the Clinton
Foundation because it is a
world-renowned charity and I am so proud
of the work that it does you know I
could talk for the rest of the debate I
know I don't have the time to do that
but just briefly the Clinton Foundation
made it possible for 11 million people
around the world with HIV AIDS to afford
treatment and that's about half of all
the people in the world who are getting
treatment in partnership with the
American Health Association we have made
environments and schools healthier
eating healthier
respectfully this is this is an open
discussion question went to pay-to-play
Saudi Arabia giving 25 million dollars
guitar all of these countries you talk
about women and women's rights so these
are people that push gaze off business
off buildings these are people that kill
women and treat women horribly and yet
you take their money so I'd like to ask
you right now why don't you give back
the money
that you've taken from certain countries
that treat certain groups of people so
horribly why don't you give back the
money I think it would be a great
gesture well because she takes a
tremendous amount of money and you take
a look at the people of Haiti I was at a
little Haiti the other day in Florida
and I want to tell you they hate the
Clintons because what's happened in
Haiti with the Clinton Foundation is a
disgrace and you know it and they know
it and everybody knows secretary very
quickly we at the Clinton Foundation
spend 90% 90% of all the money that is
donated on behalf of programs of people
around the world and in our own country
I'm very proud of that we have the
highest rating from the watchdog
that follow foundations and I'd be happy
to compare what we do with the Trump
Foundation which took money from other
people and bought a six foot portrait of
Donald I mean who does that
it just was astonishing but when it
comes to Haiti Haiti is the poorest
country in our hemisphere the earthquake
and the Hurricanes it has devastated
Haiti bill and I have been involved in
trying to help Haiti for many years the
Clinton Foundation raised thirty million
dollars to help Haiti after the
catastrophic earthquake and all of the
terrible problems the people there had
we've done things to help small
businesses agriculture and so much else
and we're gonna keep working to help
Haiti because it's an important part of
the American I want to know they don't
want them anymore I would I'd like to
mention one thing Trump Foundation small
foundation people contribute I
contribute the money goes a hundred
percent 100 percent goes to
differentiated including a lot of
military I don't get anything I don't
buy boats I don't buy planes what
happens wasn't some of the money used to
settle your lawsuit sir no it was we put
up the American flag and that's it they
put up the American flag we fought for
the right in Palm Beach I put up the
America there was a penalty that was
imposed by Palm Beach County Fisher
House where they build houses the money
that you're talking about went to Fisher
has where they build houses for veterans
and disabled I want to get into one
there's no way we can know whether any
of that is true because he hasn't
released his tax returns he is the first
candidate ever to run for president in
the last 40-plus years who has not
released his tax returns so everything
he says about charity or anything else
we can't prove it you can look at our
tax returns we've got them all out there
but what is really troubling is that we
learned in the last debate he has not
paid a penny in federal income tax and
we were talking about immigrants a few
minutes ago Chris you know half of all
immigrants undocumented immigrants in
our country actually pay federal income
tax so we have undocumented immigrants
in America who
paying more federal income tax than a
billionaire I find your cell universe
honest we're entitled because of the
laws that people like her pass to take
massive amounts of depreciation and
other charges that we do it and all of
her donors just about all of them I know
Buffett took hundreds of millions of
dollars
Soros George Soros took hundreds of
millions of dollars let me just explain
most of her donors mr. Trump done the
same thing okay folks we know Hillary
what you should have done you should
have changed the law when you were a
United States Senator that's because
your donors and your special interests
are doing the same thing as I do except
even more so you change a little bit you
won't change the law because you take in
so much money I mean I sat in my
apartment today in a very beautiful
hotel down the street known as payed
with Chinese Day but I will tell you i
sat there i sat there watching ad after
ad after ad false head all paid for by
your friends on Wall Street that gave so
much money because they know you're
going to protect them and frankly you
should have change this if you don't
like what I did you should have changed
the law mr. Trump I want to ask you
about one last question in the in this
topic you have been warning at rallies
recently that this election is rigged
and that Hillary Clinton is in the
process of trying to steal it from you
your running mate Governor Pence pledged
on Sunday that he and you his words will
absolutely accept the result of this
election today your daughter Ivanka said
the same thing I want to ask you here on
this stage tonight do you make the same
commitment that you will absolutely sir
that you will absolutely accept the
result of this election I will look at
it at the time I'm not looking at
anything now I'll look at it at the time
what I've seen what I've seen is so bad
first of all the media is so dishonest
and so corrupt and the pile-on is so
amazing the New York Times they actually
wrote an article about it that they
don't even care it's so dishonest and
they've poisoned the minds of the voters
but unfortunately for them I think the
voters are seeing through it
think they're gonna see through it we'll
find out on November 8th but I think
they can sir there's a look excuse me
because if you look at your voter rolls
you will see millions of people that are
registered to vote Millions this isn't
coming from me this is coming from Pew
report and other places millions of
people that are registered to vote that
shouldn't be registered to vote so let
me just give you one other things I
talked about the corrupt media I talked
about the millions of people tell you
one other thing she shouldn't be allowed
to run its crook'd she's she's guilty of
a very very serious crime she should not
be allowed to run and just in that
respect I say it's rigged because she
should never trust she should never have
been allowed to run for the presidency
based on what she did with emails and so
many other things I'm sorry there is a
tradition in this country in fact one of
the prize of this country is the
peaceful transition of power and that no
matter how hard what a campaign is that
at the end of the campaign that the
loser concedes to the winner not saying
that you're necessarily going to be the
loser or the winner but that the loser
concedes to the winner and that the
country comes together in part for the
good of the country are you saying
you're not prepared now to caucus is
that I will tell you at the time I'll
keep you in suspense well let me respond
to that because that's horrifying you
know every time Donald
thinks things are not going in his
direction he claims whatever it is is
rigged against him the FBI conducted a
year-long investigation into my emails
they concluded there was no case he said
the FBI was rigged
he lost the Iowa caucus he lost the
Wisconsin primary
he said the Republican primary was
rigged against him then Trump University
gets sued for fraud and racketeering he
claims the court system and the federal
judge is rigged against him there was
even a time when he didn't get an Emmy
for his TV program three years in a row
and he started tweeting that the Emmys
were rigged shoulda gotten this this is
a mindset this is this is how Donald
thinks and it's funny but it's
so really troubling okay that is not the
way our democracy works we've been
around for 240 years we've had free and
fair elections we've accepted the
outcomes when we may not have liked them
and that is what must be expected of
anyone standing on a debate stage during
a general election you know President
Obama said the other day when you're
whining hold on it just shows you you're
not up to doing the job and let's you
know let's be clear about what he is
saying and what that means
he is denigrating he's talking down our
democracy and I for one am appalled that
somebody who is the nominee of one of
our two major parties would take that
kind of position I think what the FBI
did and what the Department of Justice
did including meeting with her husband
the Attorney General in the back of an
airplane on the tarmac in Arizona I
think it's disgraceful I think it's a
disgrace
I think we've never had a situation so
hot on Fox this this doesn't do any good
for anyone let's please continue the
debate and let's move on to the subject
of foreign hotspots the Iraqi offensive
to take back Mosul has begun if they are
successful in pushing Isis out of that
city and out of all of Iraq the question
then becomes what happens the day after
and that's something that whichever of
you ends up whoever of you ends up as
president is going to have to confront
will you put US troops into that vacuum
to make sure that Isis doesn't come back
or isn't replaced by something even
worse Secretary Clinton you go first in
this segment you have two minutes well I
am encouraged that there is an effort
led by the Iraqi army supported by
Kurdish forces and also given the help
and advice from the number of Special
Forces and other Americans on the ground
but I will not support putting American
soldiers into Iraq as an occupying force
I don't think that is in our interest
and I don't think that would be smart to
do in fact
I think that would be a big red flag
waving for Isis to reconstitute itself
the goal here is to take back Mosul it's
going to be a hard fight I've got no
illusions about that and then continue
to press into Syria to begin to take
back and move on Raqqa which is the ISIS
headquarters
I am hopeful that the hard work that
American military advisors have done
will pay off and that we will see a real
really successful military operation but
we know we've got lots of work to do
Syria will remain a hotbed of terrorism
as long as the civil war aided and
abetted by the Iranians and the Russians
continue so I have said look we need to
keep our eye on Isis that's why I want
to have an intelligent surge that
protects us here at home why we have to
go after them from the air on the ground
online why we have to make sure here at
home we don't let terrorists buy weapons
if you're too dangerous to fly you're
too dangerous to buy a gun and I'm going
to continue to push for a no-fly zone
and safe havens within Syria not only to
help protect the Syrians and prevent the
constant outflow of refugees but to
frankly gain some leverage on both the
Syrian government and the Russians so
that perhaps we can have the kind of
serious negotiation necessary to bring
the conflict to an end and go forward on
a political track mr. Trump same
question if we are able to push Isis out
of Mosul and out of Iraq will would you
be willing to put US troops in there to
prevent their return or something else
let me tell you I'm so so sad we had
Mosul but when she left when she took
everybody out
we lost Mosul now we're fighting again
to get most problem with Mosul and what
they wanted to do is they wanted to get
the leaders of Isis who they felt were
in Mosul about three months ago
I started reading that they want to get
the leaders and they're good they're
going to attack also whatever happened
to the element of surprise
okay we announced we're going after most
I've been reading about going after
muscle now for about how long is it
Hillary three months these people have
all left they've all left the element of
surprise Douglas MacArthur George Patton
spinning in their graves when they see
the stupidity of our country so we're
now fighting for muscle that we had all
she had to do is stay there now we're
going into getting but you know who the
big winner in Mosul is gonna be after we
eventually get it and the only reason
they did it is because she's running for
the office of president and they want to
look tough they want to look good he
violated the red line in the sand and he
made so many mistakes made all mistakes
that's why we have the Great Migration
but she wanted to look good for the
election so they're going in but who's
gonna get mo so really will take Mosul
eventually by the way if you look at
what's happening much tougher than they
thought much much tougher much more
dangerous going to be more this than
they thought but the leaders that we
wanted to get are all gone because
they're smart they say what do we meet
this for so Mosul is going to be a
wonderful thing and Iran should write us
a letter of thank you just like they
really stupid
these stupidest deal of volta a deal
that's going to give Iran absolutely
nuclear weapons Iran should write us yet
another letter saying thank you very
much
because Iran as I said many years ago
Iran is taking over Iraq something
they've wanted to do forever but we've
made it so easy for them so we're now
going to take Mosul and you know who's
gonna be the beneficiary Iran are they
making I mean they are outsmarting look
you're not there you might be involved
in that decision but you were there when
you took everybody out of Mosul and out
of Iraq you shouldn't have been in Iraq
but you did vote for it you shouldn't
have been in Iraq but once you were in
Iraq you should have never left the way
the point is you're terminus is going to
be Iran well you know once again Donald
is implying that he didn't support the
invasion of Iraq I said it was a mistake
I've said that years ago he has
consistently denied what is a very clear
fact that before the invasion he
supported it and you know I just want
everybody to go
google it Google Donald Trump Iraq and
you will see the dozens of sources which
verify that he was for the invasion of
Iraq and you can actually hear the audio
of him saying that now why does that
matter well it matters because he has
not told the truth about that position
I guess he believes it makes him look
better now to contrast with me because I
did vote for it but what's really
important here is to understand all the
interplay Mosul
is a Sunni city Mosul is on the border
of Syria and yes we do need to go after
Baghdad II and just like we went after
bin Laden while you were doing Celebrity
Apprentice and we brought him to justice
we need to go after the leadership but
we need to get rid of them get rid of
their fighters they're estimated several
thousand fighters in Mosul they've been
digging underground they've been
prepared to defend it's going to be
tough fighting but I think we can take
back Mosul and then we can move on into
Syria and take back Raqqa this is what
we have to do I'm I'm just amazed that
he seems to think that the Iraqi
government and our allies and everybody
else launched the attack on Mosul to
help me in this election but that's how
Donald thinks you know he always I mean
looking for some uh approves it every
time you are the one that's in fit you
know WikiLeaks just actually came out
John Podesta said some horrible things
about you and boy was he right he said
some beauties and you know Bernie
Sanders he said you have bad judgment
you do and if you think that going into
Mosul after we let the world know we're
going in and all of the people that we
really wanted the leaders there all gone
if you think that was good
then you do now John Podesta said you
have terrible instincts Bernie Sanders
said you have bad judgment
I agree with both well you should ask
Bernie Sanders who he's supporting for
president and he has said which is a
pain for me around the country you are
the most dangerous person to run for
president in the modern history of
America I think he's right let's turn to
Aleppo mr. Trump in the last debate you
were both asked about the situation in
the Syrian city of Aleppo and I want to
follow up on that because you said
several things in that debate which were
not true sir you said that Aleppo has
basically fallen in fact there in fact
there was a catastrophe it is a
catastrophe that there have you seen it
have you seen it sorry you seemed what's
happened okay so it hasn't fallen take a
look at it well there are a million
people still living there and being
slaughtered it's right you also and they
are being slaughtered yeah because of
bad decisions if I may just finish here
and you also said that Isis that Syria
and Russia are busy fighting Isis in
fact they have been the ones who've been
bombing and shelling eastern Aleppo and
they just announced a humanitarian pause
in effect admitting that they have been
bombing and shelling Aleppo would you
like to clear that up
well Aleppo is a disaster it's a
humanitarian nightmare but it has fallen
from the state from any standpoint I
mean what do you need a signed document
take a look at Aleppo it is so sad when
you see what's happened and a lot of
this is because of Hillary Clinton
because what's happened is by fighting
Assad who turned out to be a lot tougher
than she thought and now she's gonna say
oh he loves Assad
she's just he's just much tougher and
much smarter than her and Obama and
everyone thought he was gone two years
ago three years ago he lined he aligned
with Russia he now also aligned with
Iran who we made very powerful we gave
them a hundred and fifty billion dollars
back we give them 1.7 billion in cash I
mean cash bundles of cash as big as a
stage we gave them 1.7 billion dollars
now they have lined he has a lot
with Russia and with Iran they don't
want Isis but they have other things
because we're backing we're backing
rebels we don't know who the rebels are
we're giving them lots of money lots of
everything we don't know who the rebels
are and when and if and it's not gonna
happen because you have Russia and you
have Iran now but if they ever did
overthrow Assad you might end up with as
bad as assadist and he's a bad guy but
you may very well end up with worse than
a son if she did nothing we'd be in much
better shape and this is what's caused
the great migration where she's taken in
tens of thousands of Syrian refugees who
probably in many cases not probably who
are definitely in many cases Isis
aligned and we now have them in our
country and way do you see where there's
gonna be the great Trojan horse and way
did you see what happens in the coming
years lot's of luck Hillary thanks a lot
for doing a great job Secretary Clinton
you have talked about and in the last
debate and again today that you would
impose a no-fly zone to try to protect
the people of Aleppo and to stop the
killing there president Obama has
refused to do that because he fears it's
gonna draw us closer or deeper into the
conflict and General Joseph Dunford the
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
says you impose a no-fly zone chances
are you're going to get into a war his
words with Syria and and Russia so the
question I have is if you impose a
no-fly zone first of all how do you
respond to their concerns secondly if
you impose a no-fly zone and a Russian
plane violates that does President
Clinton shoot that plane down well Chris
first of all I think a no-fly zone could
save lives and could hasten the end of
the conflict I am well aware of the
really legitimate concerns that you have
expressed from both the president and
the general this would not be done just
on the first day this would take a lot
of negotiation and would also take
making it clear to the Russians and the
Syrians that our purpose here was to
provide safe zones on the ground we've
had millions of people leave Syria and
those millions of people
inside Syria who've been dislocated so I
think we could strike a deal and make it
very clear to the Russians and the
Syrians that this was something that we
believed was in the best interests of
the people on the ground in Syria it
would help us with our fight against
Isis but I want to respond to what
Donald said about refugees he's made
these claims repeatedly I am NOT going
to let anyone into this country who is
not vetted who we do not have confidence
in but I am NOT going to slam the door
on women and children I that picture of
that little four-year-old boy in Aleppo
with the blood coming down his face
while he sat in an ambulance is haunting
and so we are going to do very careful
thorough vetting that does not solve our
internal challenges with Isis and our
need to stop radicalization to work with
American Muslim communities who are on
the front lines to identify and prevent
attacks in fact the killer of the dozens
of people at the nightclub in Orlando
the pulse nightclub was born in Queens
the same place Donald was born so let's
be clear about what the threat is
and how we are best going to be able to
meet it and yes some of that threat
emanates from over in Syria and Iraq and
we've got to keep fighting and I will
defeat Isis and some of it is we have to
up our game and be much smarter here I
want to get into our final segment but I
just have to it so ridiculous what you
she will defeat Isis we should have
never let Isis happen in the first place
and right now they're in 32 countries
should have never wait one second they
had a cease fire three weeks ago a cease
fire United States Russia Syria and
during the ceasefire Russia took over
vast swatches of land and then they said
we don't want the ceasefire any more we
are so outplayed on missiles on
ceasefires they are outplayed that she
wasn't there I assume she had nothing to
do with it but our country is so
outplayed by Putin and Assad and by the
way and by Iran nobody can believe how
stupid our leadership is mr. Trump
Secretary Clinton no I'm
we need to move on to our final segment
and that is the national debt which has
not been discussed until tonight our
national debt is a share of the economy
our GDP is now 77 percent that's the
highest since just after World War two
but the nonpartisan committee for a
responsible federal budget says
Secretary Clinton under your plan debt
would rise to 86 percent of GDP over the
next 10 years mr. Trump under your plan
they say would rise to a hundred and
five percent of GDP over the next 10
years question is why are both of you
ignoring this problem mr. Trump you go
first well I say they're wrong because
I'm going to create tremendous jobs and
we're bringing GDP from really one
percent which is what it is now and if
she got in it'll be less than zero but
we're bringing it from one percent up to
four percent and I actually think we can
go higher than four percent I think you
can go to five or six percent and if we
do you don't have to bother asking your
question because we have a tremendous
machine we will have created a Trent
tremendous economic machine once again
to do that we're taking back jobs we're
not going to let our companies be rated
by other countries where we lose all our
jobs we don't make our product anymore
it's very sad but I'm going to create a
the kind of a country that we were from
the standpoint of industry we used to be
there we've given it up we've become
very very sloppy we've had people that
are political hacks making the biggest
deals and there were bigger than
companies you take these big companies
these trade deals are far bigger than
these companies and yet we don't use our
great leaders many of whom back me and
many of whom back Hillary I must say but
we don't use those people those are the
people these are the greatest
negotiators in the world we have the
greatest business people in the world we
have to use them to negotiate our trade
deals we use political hacks we use
people that get the position because
they gave they made a campaign
contribution and they're dealing with
China and people that are very much
smarter than they are so we have to use
our great people but that being said we
will create an economic machine
the likes of which we haven't seen in
many decades and people Chris will again
go back to work and they'll make a lot
of money and we'll have companies that
will grow and expand and start from new
Secretary Clinton well first when I when
I hear Donald talk like that and know
that his slogan is make America great
again I wonder when he thought America
was great and before he rushes and says
you know before you and President Obama
were there I think it's important to
recognize that he has been criticizing
our government for decades you know back
in 1987 he took out a $100,000 ad in The
New York Times during the time when
President Reagan was president and
basically said exactly what he just said
now that we were the laughingstock of
the world he was criticizing President
Reagan this is the way Donald thinks
about himself puts himself into you know
the middle and says you know I alone can
fix it as he said on the convention
stage but if you look at the debt which
is the issue you asked about Chris I pay
for everything I'm proposing I do not
add a penny to the national debt I take
that very seriously because I do think
it's one of the issues we've got to come
to grips with so when I talk about how
we're gonna pay for education how we're
going to invest in infrastructure how
we're going to get the cost of
prescription drugs down and a lot of the
other issues that people talk to me
about all the time I've made it very
clear we are going where the money is we
are going to ask the wealthy and
corporations to pay their fair share and
there is no evidence whatsoever that
that will slow down or diminish our
growth in fact I think just the opposite
we'll have what economists call middle
outgrowth we've got to get back to
rebuilding the middle class the families
of America that's where growth will come
from that's why I want to invest in you
I want to invest in your family and I
think that's the smartest way to grow
the economy to make the economy fairer
and we just have a big disk
agreement about this it may be because
of our experiences you know he started
off with his dad as a millionaire
businessman we've heard this before I
think it's you know it's a difference
that affects how we see the world and
what we want to do with the economy time
Thank You Hilary could I just respond
what not well no because Ronald Reagan
very strongly on trade I disagreed with
him we should have been much tougher and
trade even then I've been waiting for
years okay does it right and frankly now
we're gonna do it right all right I the
one last area I want to get in to with
you in this debate is the fact that the
biggest driver of our debt is
entitlements which is 60% of all federal
spending now the committee for federal
responsible federal budget has looked at
both of your plans and they say neither
of you has a a serious plan that is
going to solve the fact that that
Medicare is going to run out of money in
the 2020s Social Security is gonna run
out of money in the 2030s and at that
time recipients are going to take huge
cuts in their benefits so in effect the
final question I want to ask you in this
regard is and let me start with you mr.
Trump would president from make a deal
to save Medicare and Social Security
that included both tax increases and
benefit cuts in effect a grand bargain
on entitlements I'm cutting taxes we're
going to grow the economy it's going to
grow at a record rate but that's not
going to I think it's going to totally
help you and one thing we have to do
repeal and replace the disaster known as
Obamacare it's destroying our country
it's destroying our businesses our small
business and our big businesses we have
to repeal and replace Obamacare you take
a look at the kind of numbers that that
will cost us in the year 17 it is a
disaster
if we don't repeal and replace now it's
probably going to die of its own weight
what Obamacare has to go it's the
premiums are going up 60 70 80 % next
year they're going to go up over a
hundred percent and I'm really glad that
the premiums have started at least the
people see what's happening because she
wants to keep Obamacare and she wants to
make it even worse and it can't get any
worse bad health care at the most
expensive
we have to repeal and replace Obamacare
and Secretary Clinton same question
because at this point Social Security
and Medicare are going to run out the
trust funds are going to run out of
money
will you as president entertain will you
consider a a grand bargain a deal that
includes both tax increases and benefit
cuts to try to save both programs well
Chris I am on record as saying that we
need to put more money into Social
Security trust fund that's part of my
commitment to raise taxes on the wealthy
my Social Security payroll contribution
will go up as well Donald's assuming he
can't figure out how to get out of it
but what we want to do is to replenish
the such a mess we want fun by making
sure that we have sufficient resources
and that will come from either raising
the cap and or finding other ways to get
more money into it I will not cut
benefits
I want to enhance benefits for
low-income workers and for women who
have been disadvantaged by the current
Social Security system but what Donald
is proposing with these massive tax cuts
will result in a 20 trillion dollar
additional national debt that will have
dire consequences for Social Security
and Medicare and I'll say something
about the affordable care act which he
wants to repeal the Affordable Care Act
extended the solvency of the Medicare
trust fund so if he repeals it our
Medicare problem gets worse what we need
to do is go disagree long-term health
care drivers we've got to get costs down
increase value emphasize wellness I have
a plan for doing that and I think that
we will be able to get entitlement
spending under control by with more
resources as a smarter decision this is
the final time probably to both of your
delight that you're going to be on stage
together in this campaign I would like
to end it on a positive note you had not
agreed to closing statements but it
seems to me in a funny way that might
make it more interesting because you
haven't prepared closing statements so
I'd like you each to take it we're going
to put a clock up a minute as the final
question in the final debate to tell the
American people
they should elect you to be the next
president this is another new mini
segment Secretary Clinton it's your turn
to go first well I would like to say to
everyone watching tonight that I'm
reaching out to all Americans Democrats
Republicans and independents because we
need everybody to help make our country
what it should be to grow the economy to
make it fairer to make it work for
everyone
we need your talents your skills your
commitment your energy your ambition you
know I've been privileged to see the
presidency up close and I know the
awesome responsibility of protecting our
country and the incredible opportunity
of working to try to make life better
for all of you I have made the cause of
Children and Families really my life's
work that's what my mission will be in
the presidency I will stand up for
families against powerful interests
against corporations I will do
everything that I can to make sure that
you have good jobs with rising incomes
that your kids have good education from
preschool through college I hope you
will give me a chance to serve as your
president Secretary Clinton thank you
mr. Trump she's raising the money from
the people she wants to control doesn't
work that way but when I started this
campaign I started it very strongly it's
called
make America great again we're going to
make America great we have a depleted
military it has to be helped
has to be fixed we have the greatest
people on earth in our military we don't
take care of our veterans we take care
of illegal immigrants people that come
into the country illegally better than
we take care of our vets that can't
happen our policemen and women are
disrespected we need law and order but
we need justice to our inner cities are
a disaster you get shot walking to the
store they have no education they have
no jobs I will do more for
african-americans and Latinos than she
can ever do in ten lifetimes all she's
done is talk to the African Americans
and to the Latinos but they get the vote
and then they come back they say we'll
see you in four years we are going to
make America strong again and we are
going to make America great again and it
has to start now we cannot take four
more years of
rock obama and that's what you get when
you get her thank you both
Secretary Clinton hold on just a moment
folks Secretary Clinton mr. Trump I want
to thank you both for participating in
all three of these debates that brings
to an end this year's debate sponsored
by the Commission of presidential
debates we want to thank the University
of Nevada Las Vegas and its students for
having us now the decision is up to you
while millions have already voted
Election Day November 8th is just 20
days away one thing everyone here can
agree on we hope you will go vote it is
one of the honors and obligations of
living in this great country thank you
and good night
[Applause]